AAA Northeast Member Analysis

Background

AAA Northeast is one of the regional clubs comprising the American Automobile Association.  AAA Northeast covers Rhode Island, Connecticut, Massachusetts and portions of New York and New Jersey.  The American Automobile Association has 58 million members in the US and Canada.  They offer services such as roadside assistance, maps, and various discounts as part of their services.  Roadside assistance is a costly benefit, particularly towing.  Members who frequently use roadside assistance are less desirable.

AAA also offers other paid services at highly competitive prices.  They also offer insurance, travel and banking/loan products.  AAA would like to increase the penetration of these services.

A member may have a standard membership or a premium membership covering themselves and optionally additional household members.  Many of AAA members typically have a long tenure with the club.

Objectives

Provide a market segmentation of AAA members (or member households) that allows AAA Northeast to better serve their members.  They would use this analysis to:

Better anticipate the needs of members
Customize communications and offering to various segments
Expend more effort driving acquisition and renewal of desirable members
We'll work with the members at the household level.

Methodology

There are several dimensions of revenue as well as cost.

Revenue:

Products purchased
Tenure
Number of members in the household
Level of membership
Cost:

Use of roadside service
Frequency of use
Cost to service
Summarize data to the household level.

Divide your data into training and validation sets.

Develop a series of “look-alike” models to determine the probability of purchasing each product.  Validate your models.

Develop models to predict the likelihood of using roadside service as well as the total cost of roadside usage.

Join your training and validation sets. Score all the members that do not have the purchase of a product with the probability of purchase.  If they have purchased the product, score them a 1.  Score them on the likelihood of roadside usage and the expected cost (in the next 12 months).

Use your model results to cluster/segment the members.  Use a small number of clusters (4-6).

You may include tenure (length of membership), number of members in the household and the sum of your product probabilities in your clustering as well as each model score.  Be creative.  Any numeric variable can potentially be used.

If you have performance issues you may subsample the data.

Deliverables

A slide deck describing your findings and the methodology that you used. 

You should describe your segments (clusters) in non-technical terms.  You should attempt to make recommendations as to how they might provide value to AAA Northeast.